Let's see how the sound will play if we start the game with bots enabled.
Click play. Sheer cacophony. This is because the volume of the sound does not depend on the distance
to our character. Let's see how such a dependency can be created in UE.
Again, temporarily disable all bots, go to the content browser in ExternalContent, in the directory with sounds,
in the projectile directory, in wav. These sound files were created to sound the rocket flight,
which we launch from the launcher. Let's create a separate Sound Que for them. Let's call it projectile fly.
Open asset. We can immediately install the sound class - weapon. Add sound waves to our new sound que.
We connect it to output via the random node.
Sound waves data can be looped. Select the sound waves in turn
and set the property looping to true for each of them. We are testing.
This sound will be emitted by the rocket during flight. Sound que can be pulled onto the stage.
The Editor will automatically create an actor that has a component called AudioComponent.
This component contains a pointer to the SoundQue and knows how to manage it.
We will look at it a little later in the code and also, so that the sounds of the
character's steps do not interfere with us , we can completely turn them off. To do this, in the sound class character, set volume to 0.
Start the game.
I will temporarily turn off the sound of the game. Let's open up a console and enter a command called audio3dvisualize.
This command activates the debug information of the sounds. Outputs text with the name of the sound,
with volume. Sound active or not. And, as we can see, regardless of the distance, the volume is 0.75
The UE has a special asset that allows you to change the sound settings depending on the
distance to the listener. It's called SoundAttenuation. We create an asset. We name it SA_ProjectileFly.
Let's set it up in our SoundQue right away by clicking on the output node
and in the details panel, find the Attenuation Settings property. We choose projectile fly.
Go to the Attenuation asset. There are a lot of settings, we will not consider all of them.
This is more related to the work of the sound engineer, we will have enough settings called Attenuation Distance.
These settings are responsible for changing the sound volume depending on the distance to our character.
By default, the sound is limited to a sphere. The attenuation function is linear.
In the inner radius, the sound is maximum and will decay evenly up to the falloff distance.
We went beyond the falloff distance. No sound is heard.
So now the sound depends on the distance to the character. Exploring all sound settings
is a separate topic. I additionally copied from attenuation settings from shooter game. They are located
in the audio settings folder. The shooter game uses different attenuation settings for different types of effects.
We will trust the sound designer of the Unreal Engine and will use these presets in our game.
Let's set up different Attenuation Settings for our SoundQue. Go to our sound directory. Let's start with the character.
For steps, the asset is called footsteps. We find it in the content browser.
Set it to run and walk SoundQue.
For jump sounds, install an asset named foley.
For interface sounds, Attenuation Settings are not needed.
Go to the weapon folder.
For the gear and reload sounds, set the foley asset.
Also let's finish the projectile sound.
Our test asset can be deleted. Click force delete.
And in SoundQue we specify Attenuation Settings, which is called projectile.
We transfer SoundQue to our launcher folder.
We can immediately add this sound to our rocket.
Go to the weapon directory, open the projectile blueprint.
To play sound, we need an audio component, add it in blueprints.
We set our SQ_ProjectileFly in the property Sound.
The viewport displays the debug sphere Attenuation Settings.
We return the sounds of the character, set the volume to one and also return the logic of our bots.
We start the game. We will also remove the projectile sound from the stage so that it does not interfere with us.
We start again.
The volume of all sounds now depends on the distance.